# CustomProtocol
Coursework for COEN233
# Platform
linux
# Assignment 1
## Introduction
Client using customized protocol on top of UDP protocol for sending information to the server.

## Procedure
The client sends five packets (Packet 1, 2, 3, 4, 5) to the server.

The server acknowledges with ACK receive of each correct packet from client by sending
five ACKs, one ACK for each 5 received packets.

The client then sends another five packets (Packet 1, 2, 3, 4, 5) to the server, emulating one
correct packet and four packets with errors.

The server acknowledges with ACK receive of correct packet from client, and with
corresponding Reject sub codes for packets with errors.

The client will start an ack_timer at the time the packet is sent to the server, if the ACK
(Acknowledge) for each packet has not been received during ack_timer period by client
before expiration of timer then client should retransmit the packet that was sent before.
The timer can be set at 3 seconds (recommended) and a retry counter should be used for
resending the packet. If the ACK for the packet does not arrive before the timeout, the client
will retransmit the packet and restart the ack_timer, and the ack_timer should be reset for a
total of 3 times.

If no ACK was received from the server after resending the same packet 3 times, the client
should generate the following message and display on the screen:
“Server does not respond”.

## Error handling:ACK error handling:
If the ACK timer expires and the ACK from server has not been received by client, an error
message should be displayed on the screen by client prior to resending the packet.

Reject error handling with sub code:

Case-1: An error message should be displayed on the screen when the received packet at
server is not in sequence with expected packet from client; an error message should be
generated by server and sent to client.

For example, if server receives packets 0, 1 and then 3, packet 3 is out of sequence
because the server is expecting the packet 2 after receiving the packet 1. The server will not
increment the expected sequence number until packet 2 has been received.

Case-2: The server receives a packet which its length field does not match the length of data
in the payload’s field, an error message should be generated by server and send to the client.
For example, if the length field of a received packet indicates the data payload is 125
bytes, but the actual payload is only 12 bytes, this packet has a length mismatch error.

Case-3: The server receives a packet which does not have the End of Packet Identifier, an
error message should be generated by server and send to the client.

For example, if the last byte of the packet is xFFF0, this packet has a missing end of
packet identifier error.

Case-4: The server receives a duplicated packet (sequence number), an error message should
be generated by server and send to the client.

For example, if server receives packets 0, 1 and then packet 1 again, the second
packet 1 is a duplicate packet, the server will not increment the expected sequence number.

# Assignment 2

Client using customized protocol on top of UDP protocol for requesting
identification from server for access permission to the cellular network.

Communication between one client and one server:

The client requests access information from server; the server will verify the validity of the
request and will respond accordingly.

The communication between client and server will use the ack_timer, which was described
in the first program assignment.

For the program assignment 2 you can imagine client’s software module is acting on behalf
of a cell phone.

The client’s software module sends the request for identification of its device in a packet to
the server; the packet has the following information:

